I think some people are, like the Supreme Court, they're a little bit leery of this.
I remember years ago, we were invited to lunch at Queen's College Library by Monday, and it was quite an experience.
We were actually weren't just looking for books of paper and eating corn.
And he was more interested in eating prawns than looking for books.
So finally, after a happy session, we let them try to find books and pay them.
It was not so easy, but we found them.
Also, you're going to be very interested in the flow of books from Europe to here.
And of course, you were very active in this immediately after the war.
Oh, the old days.
But we started at a halcyon time for that.
Libraries were greedy for books.
The war had prevented them from buying to a great extent.
And we were able to fill a lot of empty shelves.
Yes, at institutions.
Institutions?
I'm sorry, go ahead.
I remember one visit, our first visit to Old Street in Thrall.
We bought, within two days, a hundred and sixty books.
Largely, the one inside.
This included
the first illustrators of Sari and The Life of Michael Allen.
I mean, today, even to find these books, and if you did find them, we couldn't afford them.
They're so inflated.
I mean, European prices are insane.
Today?
Absolutely.
Aquarius has lost its mind.
I mean, we've always bought some quality.
You can't buy some quality.
We can't buy it.
They say very, very frankly, they won't even stock a book that they cannot sell for less than $100.
Well, you will.
I'm talking about $1,000.
That's right, but I mean, they won't even take a book.
They won't even buy a book.
I know.
It isn't just snobbery and books.
It's greediness.
I don't know what's wrong with the quality.
Well, in the old days, if a dealer didn't know a book, wasn't familiar with it, didn't know what it was all about, he would underpricate it.
And you really could make a find if you knew about it.
Today, if a dealer doesn't know about a book, he'd underpricate it.
It's astronomical for no reason, except that he doesn't know it.
I love your epilogue, by the way.
That is one of the most moving...
I love it.
He loves the book.
I love the book.
And his wife did too.
My wife and I spent five days in England last week working on this new book.
And we were at Quaritch, incidentally, just a couple of days ago.
And it's lifeless.
It's a lifeless place.
And they are so guarded about everything.
You know, they don't...
They don't want to talk about anything.
They don't want to.
Did you speak to Paul Wilson?
I saw Nicholas, and I saw Arthur Freeman.
Arthur Freeman.
Arthur Freeman is an ex-American.
That's right.
They're exhibiting in our New York Book Fair.
I can't make it.
Maybe that's what I can't get enough light.
Of course, you see the idea that it's an English firm.
It's going to distract
Well, X is not going to buy from you.
He would rather buy from an English term or a foreign term, I think, psychology and so forth.
But it's not.
Well, why is it so lifeless, it's quality?
I think it's just the attitude that you're both describing right now.
It's a big business.
There was a whole library there, for instance,
on consignment on Middle Eastern, it's a Middle Eastern collection.
That's where they take money.
That's right.
That's where they make money.
It must be, I would estimate, maybe eight or nine or 10,000 books.
A huge number of books, because it just fills the downstairs.
And I said, wow, whose library they wouldn't say.
I said, are you going to catalog it?
No, they're trying to find an en bloc purchaser.
They're going to be pages.
Without catwalk.
So we'll never know who owned it and who's going to buy it.
It'll go back to the east.
I would think so.
But they were young men.
That's where their big money is, the sheeps and all those people.
I've been speaking in libraries.
I remember we visited Francis Edwards one year, and Harris, who was then the head of Rare Books, he said, oh, yeah, let's go down to the basement and have fun.
We just got in the Marquis of Bucke's library.
And here were these marvels, for us, marvels of the complete alphabet of the propaganda.
I can't even begin to tell you what stuff was down there.
They didn't care, made prices.
It was a different attitude.
Perhaps people would wear books and smaller.
Perhaps people would look.
Certainly there were great, great books after Mr. Morgan did not buy a cheap book.
And Huntington and all the great collections were formed before our day.
But I think dealers were, certainly here, they were more relaxed than they are today.
And there was a closer feeling.
There were fewer dealers, but they were close.
They also were closer to their books on the land.
And that anticipates my next question.
You two are scholars.
You really don't see the scholar bookseller.
Well, you do.
I didn't want to say it.
And that's basically something that I'm developing in this book.
That's one reason for their adoration of modern firsts.
They don't have to know so much.
What about modern firsts?
Well, you have to know that this has dropped J on page 91.
I mean, and what is so terrible is that these kids brag to every fair the same lousy books.
They don't sell it at a fair in Spokane, Illinois.
They try a place in Missouri.
And it's not exciting about their home.
But they know how to charge.
You have a wonderful line at the very end in the epilogue where you're discussing basically this, and you say the problem with young dealers today is that they confuse value with price.
Scholarship.
Absolutely.
This is going into the new book.
And we're actually doing two books for Hope.
One that will be a companion to this.
And then they also want me to do a book on book collecting, tips.
Something like that.
Value.
Don't ever confuse value with price.
The person, the collector who buys for investment isn't somebody that I'm concerned with.
They are collectors.
They're business people looking for opportunities.
Exactly.
And I think this is something that has been so consistent throughout your careers is that
You're buying for value and you're helping people create collections.
And we're buying to do some detective or to enjoy ourselves in between the buying and the selling.
Let's talk about Holmes and Watson, the detective works.
You say at the very end, the great fun for you, you revel in the joys of scholarship and sleuthing.
And let's talk about it.
Well, like the whole, take the whole thing with the Pilgrim press.
I mean...
You read about that in the book, the way Leona found out about what the Pilgrim Press is all about by studying a catalog she got from her, the guy she was prejudice to, Christo, whom you never had the pleasure of doing.
She never had the joy of making this story.
She found a Robinson catalog, of course.
In Robinson.
Robinson.
He had thrown out this very posh catalog, very posh feeling, and they described a Pilgrim Press book.
And Leona, of course, read it, studied it, ate it up.
If she would ever have such a book, my God, a book printed in secret in Leiden in the early 17th century by our Pilgrim Fathers before they boarded the Mayflower and came over.
Isn't that amazing?
I mean, what would be more wonderful?
It would seem to me that a book like that would be just as important as a based-on book.
It would seem to me.
Well, but we call them American incunables.
That's right.
We call them Americans.
They are.
They're the background of the Pilgrims and of the Mayflower.
And undoubtedly, they should be considered Americana.
Yes.
Well, that's what we do.
That's right.
How many years later?
Five years later?
Well, they only published a total of 20 titles while they were in London, because the English, the English ambassador was asking them all the time, since I recall them, to contrastate these titles, because they were anti-Church of England.
That's why the Polish were... Anti-establishment, sure.
And they published, in 1617,
to 1690.
They sailed in 1620.
They went back to England to sail.
And Marilyn had one book there to show you.
Well, now, wait before that.
Five years after she studied this Robinson catalog.
About three years.
No, whatever.
Leona hasn't gone into business yet.
We're in Maine.
I'm working on
Louisa Orcus, Margaret Fuller, whatever.
And Leona is preparing to go into the rare book business.
And she's reading a catalog from the McLeish Brothers.
They were lovely friends.
And such darling people.
Little Russell Street in London.
And she sees a book that she knows was published by the Pilgrim Fathers in London.
They don't know it.
They don't say anything about it.
It was, what did we say, 3 pounds?
It was 2 pounds.
And Robinson had asked 60 pounds.
In those days, it was like 6,000 pounds today.
So she said, but how am I going to get it?
How am I going to get it?
I'm sure someone in London has grabbed it.
But someone in London hadn't grabbed it.
They didn't know about it.
And we'd tell about it in the book.
We'd send it to the book.
To make a very long story short, and breathless with excitement, yes, she got the book.
We can't go for it.
She got it about two months later, she got it.
Now, this knowledge that you've developed, that you both have, you actually use to help institutions.
I'm very interested in the formation of libraries and institutions, you see, and the role of the bookseller in this, and then also of going into
what the attitude of universities is for the future.
They're deaccessioning, you know, they're deaccessioning books.
Cornell, which you write about in this book, this new book, I was just up there about two months ago.
They are going to reduce their collections from 6.8 million to 6 million books by the year 2000.
What are they going to do with the books?
Deaccession.
Yeah, and they're scanning books, you know, and it's a terrible, it's a terrible development.
When you began by filling empty shelves, now you see it's terrible.
Well, we sold four collections on Bach, and they were unusual collections, uncommon.
It was uncommon material, and the librarians then had the sense to try to acquire this.
Not that the French Revolution was uncommon,
but our, what was a French track?
A French documentary in the 17th century.
You know, I asked Mrs. Goldschmidt yesterday, as a matter of fact, because you write about this in the book, how you did sell these four collections en bloc, because you really established and developed these themes, and all of a sudden these institutions say, you know, this is a terrific archive.
This can, undoubtedly, they're thinking about how it will support
Scholarship was to support the curriculum, I guess.
I said, did your husband ever sell any collections out of law?
She said, never.
There was one he tried to, that he put together, but nobody knew.
So, that's quite an accomplishment when you think about it.
Well, Lucie, first of all, Lucie spoke for mostly art.
But he did one very interesting job.
I had, in fact, she gave me a copy of that.
Yeah, but he didn't sell that one.
No, he wanted to, and he had to sell it.
There was political theory, and I suppose that would be difficult so much because the level of books, the landmark books that libraries would have.
And it has too many tentacles, too many different fields.
We do sell a great deal of political theory because we think it's very important.
Well, we sell it individually.
We would not attempt to sell a warm water.
It's too broad, really, too.
It's tremendous.
We had one collector bought many volumes, but that's another thing.
But to sell it, I think it would be hard.
Did you ever work with the new universities that were just emerging, not just emerging, but had just been established, you know?
And did they ever come to you and say, gee, we have to develop some collections?
Well, Brigham Young is not a university, but we did work with them to expand their collections very notably.
Well, when we were out of California, I think in 45... Well, that was the University of San Francisco.
You know, it was University of Colorado in L.A.
They gave us the back of the cards, like the police of pride.
Well, we'd skirt around and try to find them.
Well, we found some of them, because they bought them.
They were just developing.
This was UCLA or San Francisco?
UCLA or California.
UCLA and Los Angeles, they were developing then.
I don't know of any other young years.
Well, we started the Altered Collection at BYU, and that is really an important collection today.
And they have great, good holdings.
Now, is this something that they proposed to you, Ed, or that you proposed to them?
Yes, they did propose it.
They knew I was so deeply interested in Altered and had written extensively about her, and they said, we'd like to start a good collection.
And they really developed
You see, they've cut down, as most universities have today, university libraries, not just federal funding.
You can pay your hair out to sell to university libraries today.
I don't know if you've received it.
Oh, I've seen this all over.
Even Texas, for instance.
Oh, Texas, mine.
Texas purchased an Aldean collection, and I think a Medici collection.
I'm not sure.
They don't buy books.
Not from Marty.
Well, they had been buying Marty first.
They're not outfields.
They were buying like crazy.
When Lou Feldman was around at Marty's home, they bought everything from that.
The humanities research.
That's just the Yorker manuscripts, and that was done in 1993.
This is their collection.
Their collection as of 1993.
I'll give them a call.
Harold B. Lee Library, right?
Harold B. Lee Library.
Who would you suggest I talk to there?
Well, for this... Scott Duvall now.
Yes, Scott Duvall, D-U-V-A-L-L.
Formally, it was Dean Lawson.
Dean Lawson.
You could still think of Dean Lawson.
Now, Dennis Rowley is also very involved in the orchid collection.
They retired Dean, but he built it up.
R-O-W-L-E-Y.
I'll talk to them about them.
No problem.
They're very nice.
And Matty.
gave the tour for the year there, the Louise Reynolds lecture on Alcott a couple of years ago, and they really are developing.
They're cutting down on their other books.
They're buying Alcott, and they have a very fun Huguenot collection, and we've been developing the Huguenot collection.
The tract, the Huguenots tract, parents, was a very important one, and they're very hard to get today.
We had a whole collection of these old long blocks where it would never be used.
This was before Bing and Young came into the picture.
They're wider than the Huguenots.
Now, who is yourself this particular?
Are you interested in religion?
Well, not too well.
is now developing the Huguenot collection.
And they're particularly interested in pamphlet material, because there was fighting warfare between the Huguenots, the Valois, the buildings, the gazes, what was going on, the whole zone.
Religion was politics then, too, you know.
And we put out a whole catalog on the subject.
But a larger board that they would never never use.
It's a tragedy.
That's too bad.
You're finding a lot of universities now, like Cornell, for instance, if nobody uses a book, or the University of Michigan, they're even debating a book.
We sold them a great deal.
They don't use them.
Well, if a book they say isn't used within five years, they actually discuss whether or not they want to teach.
And it's very terrible.
They should write to that university.
Of course, there'll be loads of different things.
Yeah, and they've got a new building they just opened there.
They would rather have a new building, new staff.
That's right, and they don't even call it a library.
It's a learning resource center because it has computers in it.
No more new libraries at some universities.
I wouldn't be writing about this.
This is a very interesting, disquieting development, I think.
It's very disquieting.
That books, that the physical books,
you know, is being eclipsed in a lot of these places.
And the fact that they don't even probably build in a library, which is the soul of a campus.
I went out to Oberlin.
I gave a talk to him.
Well, see how they demolished the lottery schools?
That's right.
That's absolutely.
Columbia, it's disgraceful that Columbia gave up the lottery schools.
I wonder why that is.
Who should I talk to up there and ask them why they did that?
Well, the other person who should talk about it is Virginia Salinger.
He was the big shot at the library.
And obviously they feel like you don't have to learn how to be a librarian.
Susan Thompson, I don't know where she is.
If you don't have a library, you don't need a librarian.
It disgusts me.
Did they close this after Terry left?
Well, they closed it after, but he knew they were closing it.
Well, he might want to talk about that.
That's why he went to the gym.
I saw him at one of the theaters, and I said, I want to come see you.
He must be quite better at that.
You worked for Weichner, I guess, with Herbert, what was the name of Herbert?
Weichner.
Yes, he was a Viennese refugee.
He was mildly impossible, but he was a great, great bookman.
He knew his books.
and he took crowds who certainly did not have these, was not popular among both people, but passed through his books and loads of these refugees.
They introduced, in this country, a different kind of book.
They introduced a foreign scholarly scientific book, whereas before, you take Lester Parker, he was a prime bookman,
He came for cars in Marathon, a good speeder.
Naturally, it was all American.
But Harper also had his funeral.
Yes, but his, and Miriam Lone did his work, where he did the work on New Canaveral.
I don't know how much Harper knew.
But, I mean, the foreign element, of course they brought over what they knew, and they knew the foreign book.
And they brought it to the book trade.
You know, I'm doing a chapter on this.
I've already reviewed Darnie Rosenfall, you know, the lecture that he gave.
And that's why I'm trying to find, unfortunately, most of these people are gone.
So that's why I was talking to Mrs. Goldschmidt yesterday.
I talked to Mrs. Aukenbacher a couple of weeks ago.
And I'm just trying to
establish what this element, what this bookseller element did to the flow of books.
Well, Reiser came over in 1938, and what he wanted to do, he had published in the end of The File of the Blonde, which was a very fine, biblical journal, articles.
I remember we had one issue on William Morris.
It was a very broad scope.
And he thought he could publish and continue here, but he found it very expensive here to publish fine books and then periodically.
You had actually large capital, which of course he did not.
But he'd gotten books on consignment from mags and from some French firms.
And his catalogue one just was a knockout.
He's a great collector.
I mean, Leslie Rosenwald, you know, Streeter.
All those people were his customers.
And he established himself very quickly.
I came to him before he opened up.
I have been working on my Ph.D.
at Columbia and having a lot of problems, as I've been doing before.
And Dr. Hugo Paulson, who was then head of
manuscript at the American History Division of the New York Public.
He said to me, I went to see him about my dissertation, he said, listen kid, there's some foreign guy who's looking for a professor.
Since you know German very well, I thought he might do.
So I went to see Reich.
Well, he was going to Europe that summer to get more of the material.
He said, come and see me in the fall, which I did, and that was it.
And I worked with him for five years, and it hadn't been for man long.
I probably was working for his.
Still sitting there.
I mean, he paid me next to nothing.
But I knew what I was getting on price, and not that he'll virtually talk me.
But I suppose if you could work, and I had a very good background.
I love where you write, you raided his wastebaskets for that.
I did, I raided it.
I love that line.
Yes.
And he was a tyrant, he was abusive, had a terrible temper.
At the same time, after a while, he calmed down.
When I first worked for him, and if I got there at 9 o'clock, he would say, you're late.
But if I got there later on, and then after mine, he didn't open his mouth, he was becoming American now.
For instance, I did all, I tell him the book, I did all the, I had to go down to the customs house to do the conversion, to get the books through customs.
I knew as much about customs poisons as I did about the poisons.
I had not only had to get them through customs, I had to lug them from Morgan Annex when they were,
released to his office, which was on East 62nd Street.
I remember one very cold day.
I was exhausted.
And, I mean, you didn't take taxis on Herbert's generosity.
You took the subway or the trolley.
And I stopped and got a cup of coffee.
When I got to the office, he said, You had coffee?
I said, Yes, I did.
I mean, he treated you like a servant, like a slave.
He was somewhat inhuman.
No doubt about that.
And it's awful to look at.
But all that had nothing to do with it.
He was a very good person.
You do books inside.
Separate the personality from what you learned and what you learned.
And then part of the advice was to remember that thing.
And you will not find it so simple
wasting your time at that awful stress.
They will not find rare books had headaches, and we know it had headaches.
Tell me, are you reviewing the book for Biblio?
I'm actually going to do a full feature on you and the book.
I propose this to them, and this will be right about June when the book comes out.
So I'm actually writing this right now.
We've been having luncheons with the Barnes & Noble people who are very much interested in the book.
Oh, great.
I think they're going to host this at one or more of their, you know, superstars.
Oh, that's great.
Sign.
Have you talked to Leanne at all about signing it?
They should definitely have to sign the book there.
I'll suggest it to her.
I will, because it's a natural.
Well, they can't sell it.
You mean that the book's there?
Yeah, why not?
It wouldn't be available.
That's right.
Well, they could do it next year.
I mean, I signed for them for a year.
I know you did.
And it did very well.
And what they should do is get themselves a bunch of first editions right now, and they give them five books.
Well, we can't tell the...
Oh, I wouldn't dream, but Nicholas, he would.
I'd be happy to mention it to the end, or Bob Fleck, for instance.
Bob Fleck is the man.
There is a chapter on the ABAA in the book.
Absolutely correct.
He published that previous book.
I just talked to him yesterday as an hour, in fact, because he's publishing the Portsmouth catalog.
And I think I want to do a piece on that down the road, too.
He loves his old books in the world.
But, and he...
In our contract with him, have you seen old books?
Yes, I have.
I'm going to include it in this piece, by the way.
There was a clause giving him an option on our next book of a similar nature.
But we didn't regard this as a book of a similar nature.
I mean, Doubleday really ordered this book from us, you know, requested it.
called us.
We tell the story in the prologue.
That was from the New York Times piece.
The New York Times piece apparently stimulated their interest and they asked us to do a joint autobiography.
Well, only half of the book is really
We're only in business during one half of this book.
The first half is... It's biographical, you know.
Yeah, well, it all is biographical.
So we didn't regard, and I don't know how... He didn't get upset, did he?
He did.
Did he?
He did get upset.
I talked to him yesterday, and I told him he never mentioned a word to me.
Well, I think he's... Because we explained to him, this is not a book about books.
It's a book about us.
Fifty years...
as individuals.
Yes.
More than kids.
Well, I know.
Isn't that something?
Well, it was amazing how well it worked.
And the illustrations will prove that, too.
They're childhood.
I mean, they're pictures of you both as little girls in there.
The pictures, because... Oh, yes.
They're going to have about 36
Oh, I didn't see all of them.
No, because they're not in the events.
They'll be in the book.
I think advanced copies will be available in the middle of May, maybe earlier.
Well, I'm going to write this, like, right away, because this will be fresh.
This will come out in June, the things that I'm writing now.
In fact, I'll be working on this tonight, when I go home tonight, and probably work on it on the weekends and Sunday and Monday.
In fact, I'm going to take a few photographs, if you don't mind, before I go.
Again, I'm not asking you questions that you answer most of the stuff in the book.
Yeah.
So what I'm really looking for is some nice atmospheric quotations that you're giving me right now.
You're mentioning about Reischner and this whole...
this whole group of booksellers who came here.
Now, what did they do?
Did they just introduce an attitude among institutions and collections?
Well, they... Now, in Russia, in Europe, he was in Vienna.
He was not a rare book dealer.
He was a publisher.
But, Ranschfeld, who eventually took over Harper, he was with the firm of Gilchover Ranschfeld.
So, he was a rare book dealer.
Cryer was, I don't know what, I think that he was.
He was a young man.
A young man.
And married what?
And his wife had a lot of money.
And he married, he married the plywood queen of America.
Well, whatever, and she had money, and they put it in the war.
She had that much debt.
And they... You mean the war is why they came, obviously.
Well, they came because they were a Jew.
all of them.
James Johnson, Walter Johnson, his name, before he changed, was Jalowitz.
I don't know what he had done before.
They had all been connected with books.
And Reisner was one of the earliest to come, and they all came to Reisner for advice, where to settle, what to do, blah, blah, blah, blah.
and, well, he always gave him a wrong advice, but he didn't want any competition.
He was that kind of a... He was in the region.
His wife is still alive somewhere in California.
So don't say too much terrible about her.
I don't know where she is at that, but somebody told me that she spoke to Mrs. Reich.
And he had a very dear little girl and daughter, and she was, when I...
daughter.
Alice was around six.
And he was very sweet.
And he was about six years a day.
And very sweet to daughter.
And I felt anybody who was nice to a child and a daughter had something good in him.
And as I say, writes new books.
And his first catalog was a German catalog.
It's always his second.
But he put out a catalog on French
Science, which was a marvelous catalog.
He was very smart.
He would buy, say, a rung of the French philosophical papers in the 18th century, break it up and present papers of Diderot and what's his name?
Alain Bay and all these things.
He brought in a new element.
He stimulated American book collection.
They all did.
And, for instance, Krausland.
Great, great books, as we know.
Kraus came to this country with a copy of the Columbus Ladder.
Well, you don't need much more to get started.
You sell a copy of the Columbus Ladder, you can buy a lot of books.
Sure, but you've got a reputation for having them.
Right, big books.
And Krausland only had big, big books.
But, of course, they were all, not all, Ranchford was very sweet.
Cramps was a fencer, Vincent's.
After two years, I haven't been here, he wrote an article.
How do we form the American book trade?
The antiquarian book trade.
And I met him.
And I met him on Madison Avenue.
And he said, hey, young lady, you must read this.
I said, Mr. Krause, this is not going to sit down with the American book trail.
I mean, if he's here two years, he's telling... How do we call the American book trail?
This was the attitude.
Yeah, but they did enrich you.
They did enrich you.
Did he publish the article?
Of course.
What was the publication?
He was shameless.
He was probably a collector's item.
What publication did the appear in?
It was just a private pamphlet.
Johnson's still alive, isn't he?
I don't know.
He must be back.
Haven't heard about him every, or Walter Johnson.
Yeah.
Somebody said that he probably won't talk to people.
I mean, when we first heard about Walter Johnson, somebody said to Reich, you mean the ball player, because he was a great baseball player.
The famous pitcher, that's right.
Right.
From the Washington Center.
That's what I thought they were talking about.
And Reissner would have these ladies come in.
Of course, Miss Hunt was a great botanical collector.
And he would prostrate himself in front of them.
I had a whole little ladder, among God.
And some would say, Mr. Reissner, Mr. Reissner, they called him, Mr. Reissner, do you have any kids only know, sir?
And he would go crazy.
He would say to me, what did he want to give me this?
I said, it's a plan.
Let me ask you, after all these years, and I sense it in the book, you still get a thrill, don't you?
You still do when we have the opportunity to find something truly fun.
I had a book fair about 15 years ago.
New York, not the New York book fair.
a sort of a local book fair.
Madeline was at one end of the dealer's exhibit, not at the other, looking around and looking up there.
And when Madeline finds something, she uses a different book.
She said, Leona, come over here.
I knew something was cruel.
I went over and she found
The repressed book.
With Brewster's name and name.
Three of them were published with his name.
One of the, if not the rarest, one of the rarest, which are all so rare.
The dealer, we try to show no emotion, of course.
We think we'll take this thing and a couple of other things.
calling it a thing, sort of, you know.
Well, it had the price on.
There was no point in the... It was $30.
He had no idea.
He put down on the bill one old book.
This is a very well-known American deal.
Well, it was a dealer who specializes in that corner.
A dealer from the white man.
Can you tell me who he is, just out of curiosity?
No, absolutely not.
I don't hold him guilty.
It's not guilty.
You can't know everything.
I'm sure we've let a lot of questions pass through our hands.
We were in London.
And we dropped in at H.M.
Fletcher in Southport.
And we said, what have you got?
Got anything?
He said, there were bits and pieces down in the floor, down in the basement.
Go have a look.
You said that in the book, yeah, that was great.
Oh, you read the story?
There were bits and pieces, yeah.
I read the whole book.
And we found the first book published by the first book, the AIM.
It had been there 14 years on the floor.
Fletcher had gotten a collection for cottage
Robinson.
No, from, oh God, the actor.
Oh, Peter Murray Hill.
Peter Murray Hill.
Peter Murray Hill, for the case of wine, had taken the lecto was from Robinson.
From Robinson.
They had creamed it.
They creamed it.
Murray Hill had creamed it.
And Pledge has thrown the rest.
My physiology, I don't know.
I love that.
more of a cream that I've never had.
There was a bit of whipped cream on the floor there.
And we got... Actually, when we bought it, we didn't realize.
We bought it very quickly.
And we bought, we saw the title, we thought we could use it.
We didn't bother with the imprint when we bought it.
And our question is, when we got back from Europe, Matty would sit with a typewriter, and I would skim it off, say, theology,
And we shall forget the title.
I look at the imprint I see lied in the room.
That's amazing.
Well, we put it in the clock of the catalog at the time, and we received a table of lecture, not a very kind table, that he realized we'd bought it from him.
Oh, it's his own fault in 14 years to go to his staff and not left everything on the floor.
He had a price, didn't he?
He gave it away.
Maybe the halogen bulb went out.
I think he bought it a lot.
But the halogen bulb just blew.
Maybe the socket.
I was on the whole time.
Is that the one they just changed?
No.
We have to get another one of those.
Where do we get them?
They're out of existence.
Lights or light on the air or something.
Can you see?
Oh, I'm fine.
I'm fine.
Don't worry about me.
You're still active as book fillers?
We're still active.
We have a capital ready for the fame.
Really?
Is this a theme?
It doesn't have a theme.
You can have a theme.
Should we show it to you?
You can have a theme for the fame.
You can.
You have a customer comes.
What do you have on Gibraltar?
Actually, that's right, because... No, and the next customers will say, what do you have on knitting?
You really want to have something... You have to have something for nearly everybody, you can.
What do you have on music?
We do have on music.
We have the first book in which Mozart is in.
But you can't satisfy everything in the fair.
What do you have on the Restoration?
What do you have on Napoleon?
You know, it goes on and on and on.
What do you have on Lee?
Well, he can have it.
May I have this?
Of course.
In fact, I'll ask you to describe it before I leave it.
What do you have on Martin Luther King?
It goes on and on.
What do you have on the Aldean Press?
So you try, but you can't, to have a little bit of everything.
Do you mind if I mention this in the piece?
Because this won't come out.
By June it will be passed.
But my point, because it's very illustrative.
I mean, it's a point I want to make.
You're still very active, and here's your catalog.
Proof positive.
I don't think the business search is not what it was.
I think there was a time without any exaggeration that we sold nearly every American.
We don't travel the way we used to.
We don't travel.
And that's one reason that we're more limited.
Leonie said that you do, you think you at one time sold something to every, maybe... Almost to every American heart.
We sold, we would get two orders a day when there were two mares a day from Yale.
We sold to Harvard.
Pennsylvania, we never sold much to Columbia.
Princeton.
You tell the story in the book, Leona had a treasure trove at the Columbia bookstore back in the 40s, where they discarded books for no reason at all, except that they probably just didn't like the way they looked.
She found, found with another book, which tells the story in the book,
the first edition of Descartes and the Passions of the Soul.
I love that story.
And one of the orders for it, when she offered it, came from Columbia.
In fact, this notebook, by the way, I do... These are my reading notes from the book, which I say, en route to London, Flight 156, when I read this book.
And all of these little stories where you have the great vines, I actually have them all written down on the page number, because I love them.
I love them.
Well, but we really didn't show Florida to University of Kentucky.
You name it.
Everywhere.
But now.
They don't buy.
I'm sure they're not buying rare books.
The whole taste of books.
Brigham Young isn't buying rare books anymore.
They change their policies.
Can I talk a little bit about the taste of books and how that's changing?
I think that's something I'd be interested in.
Well, I think computerization
is responsible to some extent.
Look... In what respect would you think of the computer?
They're not buying rare books.
Instead, they're computerizing everything.
Putting the money as equitable in their funds are not limitless.
If an English major is not responsible, he does not have to be responsible for reading,
Georgia, Milton.
By the way, I'm having a chapter on that in the new book.
I've already interviewed Harold Bloom for this.
It bothers me that you can get a degree in English literature.
In English, not just literature, but English from... Everhurst College, two years ago, graduated summa cum laude.
They actually conferred a summa cum laude degree to an English major
who had never taken a course in Shakespeare, Milton, Chaucer, Spencer.
This will change.
How is it possible?
How can you possibly purport to be... It has to change, and it will change.
Unfortunately, it's got to do with various political... It's a political debate.
It's not a literary debate.
It's not a cultural debate.
It's a political debate.
And it has to change.
I know.
For my Ph.D., there was compulsory reading.
In 19th-century German historians and people like that, for me, nobody would even look at tragedy today.
It was insufferable.
But this Columbia demanded, and it demanded a knowledge of German.
They had to take tests in German, French, Latin for the degree.
Today, who cares?
In a way, it might be totally ecstatic, shall I say, sitting there groaning over the 19th century German story, and nothing to give a damn about it.
You mentioned briefly in the book about the Fourth Avenue bookstores.
Could you talk a little bit about that?
You know whom you should speak to?
Marvin Marlin.
I actually went down the Strand yesterday looking for him.
He hasn't been in a long time.
He doesn't come in every day.
Yeah.
I hope he's still working on that book.
It sounded like a wonderful idea.
Well, he wanted me to do the introduction to it, actually.
But, well, I don't know if he's still working on it or not.
I think I'm going to do an interview with him and just have him talk about it.
Because it was...
Pansion's daughter is still around.
Sidney Solomon's daughter.
Who is this?
Sidney Solomon.
You know, we were talking about this with these boys and noble people at lunch the other day, and they too regretted the passing of 4th Avenue, and they feel that they feel they're replacing
Which, of course, they're not.
They can never do that.
No way.
We suggested they build up a rare book arm.
It didn't have to be rare.
It's second-hand bookstores there.
Because that was the whole Fourth Avenue play.
It wasn't a rare book area.
It was second-hand.
Well, obviously, you wouldn't know.
Of course, Judy Conig, obviously, I mean, she personally wouldn't know what she wanted.
from what her father had known.
Judy, what's her name?
Judy Stone, obviously.
Judy Lowry.
Oh, George's wife.
George's wife, yes.
She, I think, might know, or, you know, remember what her father knows.
So her father was in business?
I think he began down on North Avenue.
He made a tremendous success moving up to 59 years.
So can you see what this new book is going to be about book culture on the eve of a new millennium?
Oh, I hope not.
Let's hope it's not an archaeological study.
Well, just take heart from this.
There are brand new libraries being built all over the world with unprecedented... I was just in the brand new British Library last week.
I got a tour.
It hasn't opened yet.
Wait till you see this extraordinary new building.
The new French library, the Germans are building a new library, the Japanese.
The New York Public Library just opened a new facility down on Madison Avenue.
The San Francisco Public Library, Cleveland, there is an explosion of new library construction.
Yes, there are things, but do they have both?
Well, thankfully they have shelves.
They have shelves, but they can't afford yet.
And Barnes & Noble feels that it is replacing many of the lost books.
And if you walk into a Barnes & Noble, it's then arrested.
No, they're mobbed.
Of course, they sell cappuccino and they have a Starbucks coffee.
It's a social place.
I don't think that's their main business.
But you know what?
They have to have it because people make it a social problem.
There's nothing wrong with that.
No, it's wonderful.
And they do sit around and read it.
Yeah, no, no, it's great.
Every place, because I've done some signings at St.
Barnes and Noble, and it's amazing how mugged they are.
Going into Saturday, they're mugged.
I mean, the fact that they are so interested in our autobiography.
I love it, yeah.
There are many reasons.
One, it's New York.
Two, it's a story to learn the country, though.
It's a success story.
There was trouble, but it came through.
We're old ladies now lighting up on Mars.
I love it.
It is two women, you're pioneers, without a doubt.
The first president, the first woman president of the ABAA.
No, no, she wasn't.
I'm sorry, Frances Hamill.
She was from Chicago, right?
My main bookseller, she was really very good.
Very good.
But actually, it had been many years before, hadn't it?
She was president around 1954.
But I also like the work that you did on developing the book fair.
I mean, you have the perception to see that this is something that would really... And it really did change, I think, a really democratized book collecting.
That was basically my baby.
The book fair.
And the center.
It's too bad about the center.
It's outrageous that they got rid of the center, and I'm sure they would love to have one today.
You've never saw the center.
Well, I figured not enough money was coming.
Let's see, we've talked about Fourth Avenue.
We've talked about institutions.
We've talked about Reishner.
Of course, we have the book, you know... Oh, let's talk a little bit about...
I think we have to.
That really did bring the New York Times here, didn't it?
The resurgence of interest in Alspot, I guess.
Certainly to a great extent.
I mean, because all of a sudden, what caused this... Well, we had been written up in the Times before.
But that was also in connection, I think... No, that was in connection with old and rare, with our first... Oh, really?
Our first collaboration, yes.
And that was 20 years ago?
That was 20 years before.
And then, after Old and Rare, about a year later,
I brought out Behind a Mask.
Leona had discovered the pseudonym of Louisa Alcott.
We tell it's funny.
That's Anne Bernard that we had.
Back in the 40s.
And I had used it in my biography of Alcott, which came out in 1950.
But people forget very quickly.
And then that morning in 1974, when I said to Leona, gee, they're reprinting everything these days, but they never
have reprinted those wonderful stories.
I'm going to do it.
And I did it.
That came out in 1975, and that led to a lot of brouhaha, including the articles in The Times and an interview with Barbara Walters on The Today Show.
You say on the book that she was more interested in it.
I showed that to my wife in the plane.
I said, look at this.
Why Louisa never died.
Oh, never died.
Yeah.
Anyway.
But she was very good and nice to work with.
Well, anyway, I think that led to the... Is that the phone?
That is good.
That's it.
That led to some interest in the part of Tom.
Certainly, this last interview with the Tom.
Tanisha?
No.
Oh, look.
Well, Louise, in fact, it was a movie.
Yeah.
And the long fatal love chase, and what Random House paid for it.
You see, Random House paid, well, I don't think they paid, whatever, they didn't pay quite as much as they were said to have paid, but it got, it was in the news, it was big money.
I heard it was a million dollars.
Yeah, I know you did, but so it was maybe three quarters of it.
That guy, I'm going to say it, Nicholas, I'm going to say it loud and long, the guy,
who dared say to the paper that he really discovered Louisa's secret life and all this.
Oh, that's criminal.
He had been trained by Nancy.
I don't think he said that.
Well, he posed as the discoverer of Louisa's office.
It's all been righted.
I can assure you that that guy's name isn't even going to be mentioned in this.
I know who to scream.
The point is that after they bought The Long Fable of Chase, Random House came running to me.
Will I do a modern library book of her thrillers, and what about my biography?
Can they reprint it?
So, I have no complaints.
I did do a modern library book for them, and I did do
I gave them the biography.
They got it from the University of Oklahoma Press, which kept it in print, and published a paperback, a thing, reprinted it.
So that was okay.
But the movie did a lot to popularize it.
The movie publicized her again.
Did you see the movie by any?
Yeah, look, I'll tell you a cute story.
She was doing it here.
Excuse me.